Today, we get to discuss together the most momentous statement in all the Bible.
Now, that's a pretty big claim.
There's lots of important statements in the Bible.
Obviously, everything's important, but there's genealogies and other things where you're like, oh, yeah, okay, that's fine.
But there's a lot of passages where you're like, man, that's my life verse, or that is super powerful, or that changed my life.
I'm not in any way negating any of that.
But this morning, we're gonna look at what I believe is the most momentous statement in all the Bible.
In 20 years of preaching at Calvary Church, I've not been able to make that claim.
I'm making it this morning.
So let me invite you to take a Bible and turn to the book of 1 John 4.
First John 4, maybe you're visiting here and you don't have a Bible with you.
There's one in the rack in front of you.
And hopefully we've piqued your interest to say, wow, this is a big book, but I'm going to tell you the most momentous statement in all the Bible.
Maybe you're willing to follow along and just see it for yourselves.
Well, in the church Bibles, it's page 988.
That's 1 John chapter 4.
And again, funnily enough, just kind of the way Lord works, you might think the most momentous statement in the Bible would be on page 1 or on the last page.
Here it is, tucked away in this little letter near the end of the Bible.
Now when I say the most momentous statement, I don't mean the most foundational.
If you ask me, what is the most foundational truth in the Bible?
What is the thing, the truth that everything else is built on?
It's that Jesus is Lord.
That is the foundation upon which everything else is built.
This morning we're going to see a different
sentence.
This sentence is not the most foundational, but I believe it is the most momentous, the most earth-shattering, the most powerful, the most definitive statement of who God is, and it's in our passage in 1 John chapter 4.
Now I'm going to read for us verses 7 to 21, but let me just explain how this passage works.
It's a really, really powerful, deep and important passage.
And we can't cover it in one week.
So we're going to spend three weeks on this passage.
But the passage doesn't break up nicely into three distinct sections.
So we're kind of covering this whole section three times, pulling out three different things.
So we'll be back in this passage next week as we celebrate Christmas next Sunday morning.
But this morning, we're going to hear the most momentous statement in all the Bible.
I'm going to read the whole passage and then we're going to talk about it.
1 John 4 page 988 verses 7 to 21.
Dear friends, let us love one another for love comes from God.
Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God.
Whoever does not love does not know God because God is love.
This is how God showed his love among us.
He sent his one and only son into the world that we might live through him.
This is love not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins.
dear friends, since God so loved us, we also ought to love one another.
No one has seen God, but if we love one another, God lives in us and His love is made complete in us.
This is how we know that we live in Him and He in us.
He has given us of His Spirit.
And we have seen and testified that the Father has sent His Son to be the Savior of the world.
If anyone acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in them and they in God.
And so we know and rely on the love God has for us.
God is love.
Whoever lives in love lives in God and God in them.
This is how love is made complete among us so that we will have confidence on the day of judgment.
In this world, we are like Jesus.
There is no fear in love, but perfect love drives out fear because fear has to do with punishment.
The one who fears is not made perfect in love.
We love because he first loved us.
Whoever claims to love God
yet hates a brother or sister is a liar, for whoever does not love their brother and sister whom they have seen cannot love God whom they have not seen.
And he has given us this command, anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister.
In all of the Bible, we get occasionally a construction
that draws attention grammatically to something very powerful.
Four times in the Bible, we have a construction where God is the subject of the sentence, followed by a stative verb, a linking verb, a helping verb like is, and then followed by a noun.
Now we have lots of constructions where we have God is and then followed by an adjective.
God is holy.
God is compassionate.
God is kind.
God is just.
Holy, compassionate, just, faithful.
Those are adjectives.
And that's powerful, but that's simply describing who God is.
For example, if I said to you, Lisa is beautiful.
That's an adjective describing Lisa.
But if I said Lisa is beauty itself,
Well, that's a pretty powerful statement.
That is a definitive statement to follow the verb is with the noun is a big deal.
Four times in the whole Bible, we have a construction.
God is followed not by an adjective, but by a noun.
And all four of them are given to us by the Apostle John.
John wrote a gospel and in John chapter four of that gospel, he tells us God is spirit, not spiritual, that would be an adjective.
God is spirit.
It's a definitive declaration that God is spirit.
And first John chapter one, John gives us the second of the four.
He says, God is
light, not just that God is pure or that God is life giving, but that light as a noun actually defines who God is in his essence.
And then in our passage, John gives us this construction with a third noun.
but He gives it to us twice.
In our passage, it is declared for us under inspiration of the Spirit.
God is love.
Of these four powerful definitive statements, God is love is told us twice.
That's why I think this is the most momentous statement in the Bible.
Lots of important statements.
But if you were only given three words, if you only had three last breaths before your life was over, if you had only the chance to tell somebody in three words, who is God?
These are your words.
God is love.
Because this is so momentous, we want to spend some time this morning unpacking.
What does it mean that God is love?
Why does God reveal Himself to us this way?
God is spirit, God is light, and God is love, and God is love.
First of all, it's important to note that we are not talking about an attribute of God when we say God is love.
We are talking about the essence of who God is.
This is a definitive statement, not a descriptive statement.
What does that mean?
Let me give you a couple of examples that might have explained this.
Many of you in the room have a cell phone.
If I asked you to pull out your phone and you looked at the home screen,
You would see on your cell phone similar things to what I see on my cell phone, which is a lot of apps.
You might have an app for surfing the web.
You might have an app for navigating with maps.
You might have an app for telling you what the weather is, which you don't need an app to tell you it's super cold outside.
You might have an app for video games to play on your phone.
You might have an app to help you find a parking spot.
Our phones have a lot of apps on them.
And what the apps do is they describe, really, what the phone does.
Because I have a weather app, I can tell what the weather is with my phone.
Because I have a navigation app, I can find a place because my phone is able to help me find that because I have that app.
Because I have a parking app, I can pay for a parking space through my phone.
The apps describe what the phone does.
These are like God's attributes.
We say God is wise.
That means that when you interact with God, what you get from God is wisdom.
We say that God is kind.
That means when God does something for us, we receive kindness from God.
We say God is just.
Again, these are all adjectives.
That means that anything God does, any decision he makes is right and holy and good.
But when I describe that box that you hold in your hand,
I don't call it any of the apps.
I say, this is a phone.
This is a smartphone.
This is an iPhone, whatever you want to say.
That is a statement of what the thing is, not what it does, but what the thing is.
God is love.
That's who he is.
We're not describing what he does.
He does, of course, love.
That is an action.
But this is more fundamental than that.
This is more basic than that.
God is love.
The box in your hand is a phone.
Another example.
I'm 53 years old.
I'm five foot six inches and a half.
I have black, but thinning hair, which when you see it in a video, you're like, why did that happen?
I laugh pretty easily.
Those are descriptions of who I am.
Some of those might change, but they're describing me.
But when I say, I am a human, that's not a description of me.
That's who I am.
I'm a human.
When I think thoughts, I think human thoughts because I'm a human.
When I speak words, I speak human words because I'm a human.
I can't have non-human emotions because I'm human.
The statement I am human is different from the statement that I'm five foot six and a half.
The statement that I am 53 years old.
Those are describing me, but when I say I am human, that is the essence of who I am.
So it is when God says, God is love.
It means at the core of who He is.
He is love.
Everything God does is loving because God is love.
When God gets angry and He does get angry, it's always loving anger because God is love.
When God disciplines us, it's always loving discipline because God is love.
Every plan that God has for you is a loving plan because God is love.
As a human, I can't think non-human thoughts.
I can't say non-human words because God is love.
He can't do anything that's not loving.
He can't because he's love.
That's who he is.
That's his self-revelation to us.
You see, we think the corresponding statement to, I am human is to point to God and for God to say, I am deity, which he is, he's divine, but that's not how the Bible says it.
I'm human, God is love.
This is how he defines himself.
If you only have three words.
to define God to somebody.
These are your three words.
Who is God?
God is love.
That's why if you want to ask, what is the most important thing to know about God?
It's not that he's glorious, although he is.
It's not that he's holy, although he is.
the most important thing to know about God, the most central thing, the most basic thing, the most essential thing.
God is love.
He deserves glory because He's love.
He is holy and set apart because He is love.
Now there's more we can say about the connection between God and love from our passage.
Verse seven.
Dear friends, let us love one another for love comes from God.
All love comes from God.
Every experience of love in this world has its source in God.
When a non-Christian loves their non-Christian parent, where did they get that love from?
From God.
When that non-Christian parent loves their non-Christian child in return, where did they get that love?
All love comes from God.
When we say God is love, the momentous nature of this statement is that John follows this up by saying, there is no love in this world that is not ultimately sourced in God.
It's a powerful declaration.
If you think about it, where else would love come from?
You can't medically create love.
You can't edit somebody's genes to make them loving.
There is no pill that you can take that will cause you to love.
Science has not been able to replicate love.
No one, love doesn't evolve.
There are some pills you can take that will manipulate your emotions.
There's some scientific things that you can do to sort of regulate how you feel, but love.
to give self-sacrificially to another person, to put another person's interests above your own.
Where does that come from?
John says it all comes from God.
When non-Christians love and Christians love any love in the world, God is the source of that love.
Now, why doesn't the world recognize that God is the source of that love?
Why, when you experience love, do we all not all say, oh, must be from God?
Well, it's because of what we talked about last week.
Because the whole world's under the control of the evil one.
Because there are false prophets in this world who take love and pervert it, deceive people about it, lie about it.
And so the world thinks, oh, love must be like this.
Love means getting whatever you want.
No, that's not what God is.
That's not what love is.
The world thinks, oh, no, no, I'm married to this person, but that's my soulmate.
I'm going to leave this person and go be with that person.
No.
That's a perversion of what love is.
Satan lies to us about love.
He makes us think that we're unlovable.
He makes us think other people are unlovable.
But these are all deceptions about love, but even still in a world which is under the control of the evil one, there is still love.
There's love everywhere.
And John is saying, where do you think that came from?
It didn't come from Satan.
It's not coming from us.
It's ultimately coming from God.
And one of the best evidences that God exists is that there is love.
There's a third thing to say about how God and love are so intimately connected, verse 12.
No one has ever seen God, but if we love one another, God lives in us.
And his love is made complete in us, verse 16.
And so we know and rely on the love God has for us.
God is love, whoever lives in love lives in God and God in them.
So closely connected are God and love.
That if you and I live lives of love, the only explanation is God is living in us.
Because God is the source of all love.
that when you experience love, when you give love, when you live a life of love, God is the one who is in you doing these things.
Not does that mean that every non-Christian who loves somebody must have God in them?
No one says you're living a life of love, that we're loving one another, we're loving our enemies.
We're loving those who are not like us.
We are loving those that seem to be unlovable.
We're loving at times when you don't feel, but the only explanation, if you are living a life of love, the only explanation is that God is in you doing these things.
It is unambiguous, so closely connected, our God and love, that if you are living out a life of love, if you are loving God,
and loving your neighbor.
The only possible explanation is that God is in you.
God is love.
Let me say three invitations from this truth for us today.
First, as we enter the Christmas season, we're going to talk more next week about how the fullest expression of God's love to us is Him
coming in the person of Jesus to be born as a human, to die on a cross for our sins.
That is the fullest expression of God's love.
But here's the invitation to all of us this morning.
And the invitation is this.
There is no more momentous truth in all the Bible than the declaration that God has left.
The invitation is you and I would do well to spend time today
tomorrow, this week, thinking about the truth.
God is love.
I would love for you to go from this place and think about the fact love is not an attribute of God.
It's the essence of who he is.
Everything he does, everything he does, everything he does is loving because he is love.
He cannot not be loving.
That's a truth worth pondering.
That is a truth worth thinking about.
If you're of the age where you're like, well, it's tough to memorize verses these days.
This is a good one to memorize.
God is love.
Say it out loud with me.
You've all memorized a verse of the Bible.
Good job.
But it's worth thinking about.
It's the simplest statement on the earth, but it's the most profound.
I want you to spend time thinking about because God is love.
You see, some of us think that his default mode is anger.
It can't be that.
We spend a lot of our time thinking that he's angry with us.
God does get angry.
Please, he absolutely gets angry.
But in his angriest moment, guess what?
God is love.
He cannot lash out.
He cannot react.
He cannot act in that way because God is love.
That's why He's telling us who He is.
He says, I want you to understand everything I do is based in love.
It is sourced in love.
All things come from love because God is love.
Some of us are convinced that God can be bothered with us, that He's on the bigger things.
Like He's got a whole world to run and who are we?
And why could our little problems amount to any hill of beans in God's world?
But I want you to meditate on this because that can't possibly be the case.
Why not?
Because God is love.
God cannot ignore you.
God cannot not care about the things you care about.
Why?
Because God is love.
Everything He does.
Every action that He takes, it's in love.
When God disciplines us, it is loving discipline.
Why?
Because God is love.
You could spend the rest of your life and the rest of eternity pondering this phrase.
And I'm just going to tell you of all of the passages in the Bible, of all of the thoughts in the Bible that you could think.
The most foundational is Jesus' Lord.
We're going to get to that one in just a second.
But there is no other statement that will pay as much fruit.
There's many dividends.
As if you and I keep wrestling with, God explained to me what it means that you are love.
Help me to realize and grasp this.
There's a passage in Ephesians that says that we might together with all the saints grasp the height and the breadth and the width and the depth of God's love.
And when you grasp,
That you are filled to the fullness of God.
There is no better activity that you can ever do than spend your time meditating on what it means that God is love.
You are loved by God.
There is nothing you can do to earn love from God because God is love.
There is no end to what you can do with this.
So my encouragement to you, invitation number one.
spend whatever time you've got this week.
Just thinking about the fact, God is love.
He's not loving, of course he is.
God is love.
That's the essence of he is, okay?
Invitation number two.
This has to do with the Jesus' Lord idea, and the invitation goes especially to those who are not yet Christians.
If you've experienced any love in this world,
if your dog loves you, if you love nature, if you have a friend in your life who has shown you love.
The question to ask is where did that love come from?
Did the little doggy wake up one day and decide to be a loving dog?
Did the trees create the love that you're experiencing?
Is your friend so wonderful and so perfect that they are the source of love in your life?
The answer is no.
All of these things, the love that the dog has for you and that you have for the dog, the love that you experience in nature, the love that we experience from friends, all of this are signs.
All of these are signs pointing us to the God who is the source of all those things.
And here is the invitation.
If you have been loved by a dog,
If you have been loved or loved being in nature, if you have been loved by a friend, the invitation is God is inviting you to come and discover Him because He is love.
And if you've had any shadow of love, no matter how sort of tainted or faint or confusing, Satan cannot stop love from existing in this world.
He perverts it.
He deceives us about it.
He tries to hinder it.
But God is way too powerful.
And the invitation is, if you've had any love in your life, why not come to know the one who is the source of love?
Look, you might think he's going to be angry.
He can't be.
You might think he's going to reject me.
He absolutely can't.
Not just that he won't.
He can't because he's love.
I mean, love is, is that not what brings joy in this world?
And the invitation is come and meet the one who is love.
Come and meet the one who loved you enough to send his son so that you might know that he is love.
Every piece of love we've experienced in this world is just an appetizer.
pointing us to the source of all love, and it's God.
So the second invitation is, come and meet Him, come and know Him, come and experience real love, pure love, sublime love, love that will love you more than you could ever possibly imagine.
The third invitation is for all of us this holiday season.
If you would like more of God in your life, and if you would like more of God in your holidays, the invitation is to choose to love others during the season.
The crazy thing about Christmas is this expression of God's love, but we often turn it into a way to love ourselves.
We think, well, these are the presents I want.
These are the family experiences I want to have.
This is how I want Christmas day to go.
As aside, let me just say that God loves each one of us too much to let our holiday plans turn out exactly the way we want them to turn out.
The invitation here is not to think about, well, how can I make sure that these holidays go the way I want them to go?
You might succeed at that, you probably won't, but in either case,
God won't be present.
But if instead this holiday season, you simply say to God, okay, God, not my will, but yours be done.
When you say to others, how can I serve you?
How can I love you?
What can I do for others?
It is better to give than to receive.
The invitation this holiday season is to remember God is love.
When we choose to love others, God dwells in us and we experience God.
Maybe right now you're feeling distant from God.
Maybe you're feeling like I haven't heard from God in a long time.
Maybe you're thinking it feels like I don't know what God is up to.
Here's the invitation.
If you want God tangibly present in your life, choose to love others.
And there's no better time to do this.
No harder time to do this.
than during the holiday season.
These are the three invitations.
Spend time thinking, meditating, memorizing God is love.
If you're not yet a Christian, accept the fact that in every act of love you experience, God is inviting you to come and meet the source of all of that love.
And during the holiday season, if you want more of God present in your life, choose to love others as he's loved us.
Lord willing, I'll get to preach at Calvary for many more years in the future.
But I will never again be able to say in this same sort of way our text this morning is the most momentous truth in the Bible.
There are other really, really powerful things to say.
But the most fundamental, the most powerful, the most definitive statement is God is love.